---
title: Drafts v33 Release Notes
tags: meta, drafts, documentation, beta
davodtime: 09152022-025221
local: shareddocuments:///private/var/mobile/Library/Mobile%20Documents/iCloud~md~obsidian/Documents/OBSHIDDIAN/drafts/03355F5C-394F-4285-BDCD-FFE7DB1DC5C1.md
dg-publish: true
share: true
draft: drafts://open?uuid=03355F5C-394F-4285-BDCD-FFE7DB1DC5C1
---

###  Updated System Requirements 

The minimum system requirement for the Public Beta:

- **iOS 14.7 or newer** _(was iOS 14.0, expect iOS 14 support to be dropped in early 2023)_
- **macOS 10.15 (Catalina) or newer** _(was macOS 10.13 or newer)_
- **watchOS 7.1 or newer** _(no change)_

It is highly recommended you use the latest version on all of your devices if you are syncing data. If you have an older device which cannot support these operating system requirements, and you wish to run an older version of Drafts, please disable iCloud sync on that device.

###  Support for New OS Features 

#####  Lock Screen Widgets 

iOS 16 added the ability to have widgets on your iPhone Lock Screen. Drafts provides a Lock Screen widget with the same functionality as a small-size Grid Widget on the Home Screen. Each Lock Screen widget can be assigned to run a common command, display information about your inbox or a workspace, or even run an action! [Learn more][7]


[7]: http://docs.getdrafts.com/docs/extensions/widgets.html#lock-screen-widgets

#####  Focus Filters 

Drafts offers a Focus Filter which allows you to configure aspects of the app when your Focus mode changes at the system-level. Focus Filters are configured in the OS Settings app. If you add the Drafts' Focus Filter to your Focus mode configuration, you can use it to apply a workspace, change themes, change loaded action groups, and other options.

#####  Shortcuts & App Shortcuts 

iOS 16 & macOS 13 introduce an entirely new way to build integration with Shortcuts. Drafts extensive array of Shortcuts actions have all be updated to use this new "App Intents" system. Mostly this should be seemless to you, the user, but it does add some nice new abilities, like the ability for Drafts to automatically provide a variety of shortcuts without any need for configuration on your part. These include quite a few Siri trigger phrases. A few examples to try:

- "Create draft"
- "Dictate draft"
- "Capture with Drafts"
- "Search Drafts"
- "Load Workspace (Name) in Drafts"

#####  New Find-Replace UI on iOS 

iOS 16 introduced a new native text find-and-replace interaction. Drafts has adopted this as the default find interface in the editor, so if you trigger find (magnifying glass in [Action Bar][8] selector, or via action) the system find will appear. Drafts advanced find is still available on iOS 16 by tapping for options in the find view which appears above the keyboard, if you need advanced regular expression or other options.


[8]: https://docs.getdrafts.com/docs/editor/action-bar.html

_Note that you can tap and hold on the quick search magnifying glass above the editor to get to "Find in Draft", or directly to advanced find._

iOS 16 introduced new ways to configure popup menus, and Drafts takes advantage of these throughout the app where menus are used. Primarily a cosmetic improvements, it does make menus more readable in many cases.

###  Scoped Tags 

Scoped tags provide a special markup to have multiple tags treated as members of the same scope, and only allow assignment of a single tag in the scope at a time. Scoped tags are in the format `prefix::tag`. Drafts will automatically allow only one tag in a given `prefix` to be assigned to a draft. For example, if you a draft is assigned the tag `status::new`, and you later assign the tag `status::completed` to the draft - `status::new` will automatically be removed. This is a great tool for creating workflows tracking status or priority. [Learn more][9]


[9]: https://docs.getdrafts.com/docs/drafts/tagging#scoped-tags

###  Image OCR 

The heading pretty much says it…must like Drafts can already do document scanning, or transcribe text from audio and video files, it now registers itself to handle images, and if you open an image in Drafts, it will offer to use OCR to transcribe and text found in the image into a new draft. [Learn more][10]


[10]: http://docs.getdrafts.com/docs/editor/document-scanning#transcribing-images

###  Action Aliases 

Action aliases are quick way to create an action that references another action. If you have an action you want to appear in multiple action groups, but don't want to duplicate it and have to worry about maintaining both if you make changes - aliases are a simple solution.

Create action aliases in the context menus on actions in the action list (right-click on Mac, tap and hold on iOS). [Learn more][11]


[11]: https://docs.getdrafts.com/docs/actions/editing-actions.html#action-aliases

###  Library Summary 

The Library Summary is a quick overview of library statistics, with charts of workspace draft counts, and tag counts. The summary is vailable only on iOS 16 or macOS 13 (Ventura). To access the summary:

- **iOS 16**: Select the operations button (two gears) below the draft list, then `Global > Library Summary`.
- **macOS 13**: Select `Drafts > Library Summary` in the main menu.

####  Other Additions, Changes, and Updates 

- **All Platforms**
    - **New:** "Open to…" contextual menu options in draft list. If a draft has navigation markers (as determined by syntax, like `# Headings` in Markdown), this menu will be available and allows you to open the draft directly to a navigation marker, rather than the last selection.
    - **New:** Workspaces have a new option to filter by flagged status. This is also available on `Workspace` script objects as the `flaggedStatus` property (accepts: "flagged", "unflagged", "any").
    - **New:** Workspace manager now displays number of drafts in the folders of the workspace.
    - Tag filters now support scoping queries based on `::` and `/`. If you filter by a tag name ending in `::` or `/`, it will be treated like you are searching for any tags that begin with the prefix, so a tag filter for `status::` would find tags `status::new`, `status::old`, etc. Similarly, `status/` would find `status/new`, and `status/old`. This works in Workspace tag filters, and in searches using the `tag:` prefix in search fields and quick search.
    - **New:** New Shortcuts Actions 
        - [Set Theme][12]: Allow updating active theme mode and themes.
        - [Quick Search in Drafts][13] opens Drafts directly to quick search, optionally with a value in the search field.
        - Better handling of rare catastrophic failure states that no one should ever see.
    - Performance and memory use improvements.
    - Some minor design improvements to a number of action icons. Add Wordpress, Craft, and Obsidian logo icons.
    - **Fix:** Crasher with out of bounds negative line indexes using the `[[line|n]]` tag in tmeplate processing.
- **iOS**
    - **New:** Number of drafts in the current tab now displayed below draft list.
    - **Change:** Removed Action Group side panel that could be swiped in from the right side of the Action List. Action Groups are now switched via down-arrow menu at top of list, or via Quick Access Tabs (enabled in "…" list options) at the bottom of the screen. If you used this panel, sorry for the adjustment, but very few people used this panel, and its existence kind of messed with people expectations for swipe action to appear on actions when swiping to the left in the list.
    - **Fix:** Issue with date picker dismissal in scripted prompts leaving the prompt in an unusable state.
    - **Fix:** A "File" action step configured to write to a Bookmark folder could generate a blank finder tag attached to the file if no tags were assigned.
    - **New:** Recent actions now available in long press menu of action list button at top right of the editor.
    - Added long press menu on trash tab, with "Empty Trash" operation.
- **Mac**
    - **New:** Holding down option key when using "Workspaces" menu in the main menu will open the workspace in a new window.
    - **New:** "Copy…" context menu commands in draft list now support multiple selected drafts and will merge them together in the pasteboard.
- **Scripting Changes**
    - **New:** `Autocomplete` script object to access and update global autocomplete items. See [beta docs][14] for details.
    - **New:** `Tag` script object, with two functions: 
        - `Tag.query(matching: string) -> [string]` : return array of tag names matching query, or all unique tags if you omit the `matching` argument.
        - `Tag.recentTags()` : Replaces now deprecated `Draft.recentTags()` returning list of recently used tags.
        - [Docs][15]
    - **Change:** `Notion` script object now has optional `version` property to specific which Notion API revision to target. Defaults to "2022-02-22".
    - **Change:** `editor.showFind()` can now take an optional boolean parameter `preferAdvancedFind` that will default to showing advanced find interface on iOS 16.
    - **Change:** Todoist API updates: 
        - Todoist quick add functionality now calling v9 of Todoist Sync API (v8 being discontinued in the Fall).
        - `Todoist` script object now calls v2 of REST API. If you rely on Todoist scripting, see [migration docs][16]. If you need to temporarily fallback to v1 API, set `todoist.apiVersion = "1"` on your `Todoist` objects before making any requests.
    - **New:** Prompt now has the ability to add segmented control. Use `.addSegmentedControl(name: string, label: string, values: [string], selectedValue: string)` (will post example to Slack)
    - **New:** Implemented `toJSON()` function on `Draft` script objects to produce standardize rendering of a draft, which is also compatible with `JSON.stringify`. Useful for posting to webhooks, etc.


[12]: https://docs.getdrafts.com/docs/automation/shortcuts#set-theme
[13]: https://docs.getdrafts.com/docs/automation/shortcuts#quick-search
[14]: https://beta-scripting.getdrafts.com/classes/Autocomplete
[15]: https://beta-scripting.getdrafts.com/classes/Tag
[16]: https://developer.todoist.com/rest/v2/#migrating-from-v1