---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/drafts/069-b8338-8-e06-455-d-9-a2-d-09-eab-33-c1-e49/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

Updated `08312022-213935`

- [Start Message](https://discord.com/channels/551914015131959308/880105977637117994/1013248508620460127) (?)
- [WTF](https://davidblue.wtf/drafts/069B8338-8E06-455D-9A2D-09EAB33C1E49.html)

---

> Looking for suggestions for a Notion replacement.
> 
> Since I'm now working corporately full-time, I don't need the fully customized Notion database I built for my freelance business. What I do need is:
> 
> - Ability to have a list of to-do based items displayed in calendar and list options.
> - Ability to sync with Google Forms through Zapier to automatically fill out new lines/to-dos.
> - Bonus: data that is on my own server/iCloud and not someone else's (like Notion).
> 
> Any suggestions?
- [justincox#6045 - 08272022-190500](https://discord.com/channels/551914015131959308/880105977637117994/1013237897429786644)

---

ooo the way I reacted to this notification suggests I have been actively looking for someone to have an adjacent conversation with regarding Notion for ... a pitifully long time lol.

if you were a client, I'd ask if you wouldn't mind reflecting a bit on your experience with Notion abstractly and telling me about:

- Tasks/workflows/experiences you engaged with which Notion felt particularly adept for
- Any of these which stick out as notably *unnatural*-feeling within Notion

---

Happy to dig in. 

I did use Notion as a complete CRM that I built to manage my clients. I tracked payments, due dates, projects, etc. Now that I’m working corporately again, I don’t need all these features. 

I do still use Notion to manage my two newsletters and my publication. I have a database with list and calendar views that shows upcoming newsletters that are due, their status, and publish date. Likewise, when a columnist or priority submission comes in (via Google form and Zapier), it adds to the database so I can view it as a to-do. This way, when an interview is scheduled, I know the next open opportunity. 

Notion is fine, but I don’t like that everything lives on Notion’s servers. I’m also not a fan that I can’t set reminders or have notifications when things are coming due. Since I’m not in the app daily anymore, it’s possible to miss something. I don’t want to miss something. 

Plus, it’s minor but it’s something, it really bugs me that I have to download a third-party app icon to make the Notion app fit in with macOS. It just highlights how non-Mac Notion is.
- [08272022-201231](https://discord.com/channels/551914015131959308/1013237897429786644/1013254801552838687)

---

- [08312022-213853](https://discord.com/channels/551914015131959308/1013237897429786644/1014725969514348604)

Sorry that took me so long...

Unfortunately - to my knowledge, at least - there currently isn't really an equivalent that can offer integration with automated services like Zapier along with options for self/local hosting. Especially since it sounds like you've already invested significant time in your Notion setup, I think the best option might just be sitting on it and waiting(?) for someone to create such a thing.