---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/drafts/0-d70-b4-fb-3157-4-b35-97-e3-740-a8-ffc-0-bb-1/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

Updated `08112022-092210`

-"[Creative Director at Discord](https://discord.com/jobs/5935378002)"

---

New York City residents only: Minimum salary of $209,000/year + equity and benefits
*Note: Disclosure as required by NYC Pay Transparency Law*

Colorado residents only: Minimum salary of $167,200 /year + equity and benefits
*Note: Disclosure as required by sb19-085(8-5-20)*

##### Benefits and Perks

- Comprehensive medical insurance including Health, Dental and Vision (plus up to $20,000 for gender affirmation procedures)
- Mental health resources and quarterly wellness stipends
- 16+ paid holidays, 4 weeks of PTO + use-what-you-need sick days 
- Paid parental leave (plus fertility, adoption and other family planning benefits)
- Flexible long-term work options (remote and hybrid)
- Volunteer time off
- A diverse slate of Employee Resource Groups 
- Plus commuter contributions and other perks for office-based employees

##### About Us

Discord is a voice, video and text app that helps friends and communities come together to hang out and explore their interests — from artists and activists, to study groups, sneakerheads, plant parents, and more. With 150 million monthly users across 19 million active communities, called servers, Discord has grown to become one of the most popular communications services in the world. Discord was built without selling ads or user data and instead, offers a premium subscription called Nitro that gives users special perks like higher quality streams and fun customizations.

We’re working toward an inclusive world where no one feels like an outsider, where genuine human connection is a click, text chat, or voice call away. A place where everyone can find belonging. Challenging? Heck yes. Rewarding? Double heck yes. It’s a mission that gives us the chance to positively impact millions of people all over the world. **So if this strikes a chord with you, come build belonging with us!**