---
title: cavalcade
tags: vocabulary
davodtime: 09082022-113656
local: shareddocuments:///private/var/mobile/Library/Mobile%20Documents/iCloud~md~obsidian/Documents/OBSHIDDIAN/drafts/2726B53D-091D-460F-BB3D-E3A59E3E49BE.md
dg-publish: true
share: true
draft: drafts://open?uuid=2726B53D-091D-460F-BB3D-E3A59E3E49BE
---


## Noun

1. a procession of people traveling on horseback
	- Less specific
		- procession

*From LookUp*:
Noun
1.	a formal procession of people walking, on horseback, or riding in vehicles
the royal cavalcade proceeded through the city

## Origin

late 16th century (denoting a ride or raid on horseback): from French, from Italian cavalcata, from cavalcare ‘to ride’, based on Latin caballus ‘horse’

## Wikipedia

A cavalcade is a procession or parade on horseback, or a mass trail ride by a company of riders.  The focus of a cavalcade is participation rather than display. Often, the participants do not wear costumes or ride in formation. Often, a cavalcade re-enacts an important historical event and follows a long-distance trail.  A cavalcade may also be a pilgrimage.
Many cavalcades involve ceremonial entries into and departures from towns and villages along the way.  A small version of such a ceremonial entry is the "grand entry" that is traditional in many rodeos.  Long-distance cavalcades may acquire more riders who join from populated places along its route.

The term cavalcade comes from the classical Latin word caballus, used to describe a strong work horse.  This developed into the word caballicare, "to ride horseback," which in Italian became cavalcare. In Spanish the term for cavalcade is cabalgata.