---
title: "MacOS: converting a man page to markdown"
tags: capture
davodtime: 09082022-113651
local: shareddocuments:///private/var/mobile/Library/Mobile%20Documents/iCloud~md~obsidian/Documents/OBSHIDDIAN/drafts/86FA267E-18C7-4146-AEF9-08AC710128C0.md
dg-publish: true
share: true
draft: drafts://open?uuid=86FA267E-18C7-4146-AEF9-08AC710128C0
---
-"[MacOS: converting a man page to markdown](https://wiert.me/2020/03/09/macos-converting-a-man-page-to-markdown/)"

---
FSCK*HFS(8) – System Manager’s Manual
# NAME
**fsck*hfs*- – HFS file system consistency check
# SYNOPSIS
**fsck*hfs*-  
**-q*-  
[**-df**]  
*special …*  
**-p*-  
[**-n*- | **-y*- | **-r**]  
[**-dfgxlES**]  
[**-D*- *flags*]  
[**-b*- *size*]  
[**-B*- *path*]  
[**-m*- *mode*]  
[**-c*- *size*]  
[**-R*- *flags*]  
*special …*
# DESCRIPTION
The  
utility verifies and repairs standard HFS and HFS+ file systems.
The first form of  
quickly checks the specified file systems to determine whether  
they were cleanly unmounted.
The second form of  
preens the specified file systems.  
It is normally started by  
fsck(8)  
run from  
*/etc/rc.boot*  
during automatic reboot, when a HFS file system is detected.  
When preening file systems,  
will fix common inconsistencies for file systems that were not  
unmounted cleanly.  
If more serious problems are found,  
does not try to fix them, indicates that it was not  
successful, and exits.
The third form of  
checks the specified file systems and tries to repair all  
detected inconsistencies.
If no options are specified  
will always check and attempt to fix the specified file systems.
The options are as follows:
**-c*- *size*
> Specify the  
*size*  
of the cache used by  
internally. Bigger  
can result in better performance but can result in deadlock when  
used with  
**-l*-  
option. Size can be specified as a decimal, octal, or  
hexadecimal number. If the number ends with a “k”, “m”,  
or “g”, the number is multiplied by 1024 (1K), [1048576](tel:1048576) (1M),  
or [1073741824](tel:1073741824) (1G), respectively.
**-d**
> Display debugging information.  
This option may provide useful information when  
cannot repair a damaged file system.
**-D*- *flags*
> Print extra debugging information. The  
*flags*  
are a bitmap that control which kind of debug information is printed.  
The following values are currently implemented:
> 0x0001
> > Informational messages
> 0x0002
> > Error messages
> 0x0010
> > Extended attributes related messages
> 0x0020
> > Overlapped extents related messages
**-b*- *size*
> Specify the size, in bytes, of the physical blocks used by the  
**-B*-  
option.
**-B*- *path*
> Print the files containing the physical blocks listed in the file  
*path*.  
The file should contain one or more decimal, octal (with leading 0) or  
hexadecimal (with leading 0x) numbers separated by white space. The physical  
block numbers are relative to the start of the partition, so if you  
have block numbers relative to the start of the device, you will have to  
subtract the block number of the start of the partition. The size of a  
physical block is given with the  
**-b*-  
option; the default is 512 bytes per block.
**-f**
> When used with the  
option, force  
to check `clean’ file systems, otherwise it means force  
to check and repair journaled HFS+ file systems.
**-g**
> Causes  
to generate its output strings in GUI format.  
This option is used when another application with a graphical user interface  
(like Mac OS X Disk Utility) is invoking the  
tool.
**-x**
to generate its output strings in XML (plist) format. This option  
implies the  
**-g*-  
**-l**
> Lock down the file system and perform a test-only check.  
This makes it possible to check a file system that is currently mounted,  
although no repairs can be made.
**-m*- *mode*
> Mode is an octal number that will be used to set the permissions for the  
lost+found directory when it is created.  
The lost+found directory is only created when a volume is repaired and orphaned  
files or directories are detected.  
places orphaned files and directories into the lost+found directory (located  
at the root of the volume).  
The default mode is 01777.
**-p**
> Preen the specified file systems.
**-q**
to quickly check whether the volume was unmounted cleanly.  
If the volume was unmounted cleanly, then the exit status is 0.  
If the volume was not unmounted cleanly, then the exit status will be non-zero.  
In either case, a message is printed to standard output describing whether the  
volume was clean or dirty.
**-y**
> Always attempt to repair any damage that is found.
**-n**
> Never attempt to repair any damage that is found.
**-E**
> Cause  
to exit (with a value of 47) if it encounters any  
major errors. A “major error” is considered one which  
would impact using the volume in normal usage; an inconsistency  
which would not impact such use is considered “minor” for this  
option. Only valid with the  
**-n*-  
**-S**
to scan the entire device looking for I/O errors. It will  
attempt to map the blocks with errors to names, similar to  
the  
**-R*- *flags*
> Rebuilds the requested btree. The following flags are supported:
> a
> > Attribute btree
> c
> > Catalog btree
> e
> > Extents overflow btree
> Rebuilding a btree will only  
work if there is enough free space on the file system for the new btree  
file, and if  
is able to traverse each of the nodes in the requested btree successfully.  
Rebuilding btrees is not supported on HFS Standard volumes.
**-r**
> Rebuild the catalog btree. This is synonymous with  
**-Rc**.
Because of inconsistencies between the block device and the buffer cache,  
the raw device should always be used.
# EXIT VALUES
indicates some status by exit value. The current list of exit status results  
is:
0
> No errors found, or successfully repaired.
3
> A quick-check (the  
option) found a dirty filesystem; no repairs were made. There is a potential  
corruption in the filesystem, and either the journal could not be read, or a  
runtime corruption was present so the HFS Volume Inconsistent bit was set.
4
> During boot, the root filesystem was found to be dirty; repairs were  
made, and the filesystem was remounted. The system should be rebooted.
8
> A corrupt filesystem was found during a check, or repairs did not succeed.
47
> A major error was found with  
**-E**.
# SEE ALSO
fsck(8)
# BUGS
is not able to fix some inconsistencies that it detects.
# HISTORY
command appeared in Mac OS X Server 1.0 .
Mac OS X – August 5, 2008