---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/drafts/8902-bb-5-a-4-cb-0-4-ce-0-ba-95-d4-a083-dee-584/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

## "text hammering, binge watching, mobile blogging" 
``
Rare, these days, that I write _anything_ on my smartphone (besides an occasional text message). In fact, I rarely use my phone AT ALL other than to turn on the PDAnet+ application for tethering. But now, I am writing this blog post via Firefox. Weird, how muscle memory works, and I can just start thumb-hammering text without an issue (and quickly).
**Why write on mobile?**
Because the MBA is wired to the television set (my third time using it (the TV), I think – and I have had it since January). And I am watching **The 8-Bit Guy** (or binge watching, really) and it is a playlist of him making his “dream computer” (the Commander X16). And it is fairly entertaining.
Stuff like this makes me want to do “computer-y stuff”. I can/do fool around with web dev sometimes, but doing development from scratch is a no-go for me, I think, because there is just too much to deal with, really. Plus, I'm not super thrilled with writing in PHP and creating MySQL databases, and the time spent configuring CSS sheets, etc. I'd _much_ rather just use the knowledge I have to run _other_ software, and configure this and that on occasion if I have to. Not too bad.
I love _learning_ about a lot of random shit, though. Hence the **8-Bit Guy** playlist. It's important to be a lifelong learner, I think. Even if X amount of info/knowledge is not utilized in a pragmatic manner, just the mental _stimuli_ is worth it.
Ok, I don't know how long I have rambled for, because there is no word count on W.a mobile, I don't think.
Back later, though
... [Discuss...](https://remark.as/p/tmo/text-hammering-binge-watching-mobile-blogging) | also, the blog is over on Ghost now, come visit! >>> [tmo.name](https://tmo.name)
-"[text hammering, binge watching, mobile blogging](https://write.as/tmo/text-hammering-binge-watching-mobile-blogging)"
---
## "more bloggin' via mobile" 
``
I am not wired in to the TV right now (the MBA is sitting next to the chair). But I figured I'd do a mobile blog post anyway, because they can be fun :)
It's a different element to the writing, and one that may “help” my flow _of_ writing (instead of the continual rut I have been in with the desktop Firefox method of):
  * launch Firefox on the MBA > go to read.write.as > go to “Write” > hammer out a blog post
OR
  * launch Firefox on MBA > type in `tmo [right arrow] g` (which populates the URL bar with `tmo.name/ghost`) > click “New Post” > hammer out a blog post
Now, I just sort of keep the W.a editor launched continually on Firefox mobile, and just start writing when I am in the mood. I did this for a number of years a while back – in 2018 through late-2019 (when I was still doing Twitter/Instagram, I just _always_ had the phone in-hand, so I would blog that way, too). So, the blog-length method of writing on mobile is not foreign to me.
I gotta say, this _is_ a change, and in some regards and improvement (at least in terms of ENJOYING MYSELF while I write). I can't describe the narrow-eyed focus and pseudo determination one expresses/possesses when they are putting words down on a mobile device. Like the ancestors of the BlackBerry days, the “CrackBerry” mindset of “damn it, I gotta get this stuff written, Now!” is still prevalent. For me it is, anyway.
As a computer has a passive “take it or leave it” type of presence to it. I can make a meal in the kitchen and sit down for a sentence or so while I am at it. Casual. Good, in some ways. But the mobile method is more appealing for now.
And as far as Ghost – I don't think it actually works on mobile. Words repeat themself, characters show up out of nowhere, all kinds of shit goes haywire. No good.
Anyways back later.
... [Discuss...](https://remark.as/p/tmo/more-bloggin-via-mobile) | also, the blog is over on Ghost now, come visit! >>> [tmo.name](https://tmo.name)
-"[more bloggin' via mobile](https://write.as/tmo/more-bloggin-via-mobile)"