---
title: Explaining ???? to Family Tech Support
tags: local, family, power, correspondence
davodtime: 09082022-105550
local: shareddocuments:///private/var/mobile/Library/Mobile%20Documents/iCloud~md~obsidian/Documents/OBSHIDDIAN/drafts/91BC377E-4C26-4B9B-905B-49A5FDCAE022.md
dg-publish: true
share: true
draft: drafts://open?uuid=91BC377E-4C26-4B9B-905B-49A5FDCAE022
---

It’s not something that needs to be dumbed down because it’s just dumb. I am not nor have I ever been a web developer, but the entity in question is literally the most basic type of software there is - it is a logger. So, it writes down every single detail of every single event on a network. And it’s very ancient. As far as I understand it, somebody forgot to put a rule in somewhere that prevents just any ole person/computer from asking big infrastructural computers to perform whatever task they’d like *without limiting how many times they can ask them to do so (rate.)* 

Imagine if I commanded Joe Biden to stop whatever he’s doing right now immediately and proceed to scream “Big Boy Food” as fast and loud as he can over and over again without respite until he literally suffocates *and he absolutely had no choice but to comply*. That power would immediately enable me an infinitely more resource and time efficient means of killing the president than… any other means. Obviously, humans all have infinitely many types of criteria we require the person issuing us instructions to satisfy before we even begin to consider complying with those instrucyions. Computers must be given said requirements methodically in a way that becomes very complex very quickly and must be persistently audited as the greater context changes.

…BUT, in my opinion, it’s a waste of one’s time to react to the consequences of not doing so by trying to understand the technicalities of this dynamic, itself. I strongly feel that we need to spend time instead figuring out how we can live in a way that is not quite so vulnerable to these consequences.