---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/drafts/92536-a3-c-83-c1-4168-9-a68-ec-70155-e4-e99/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---


- [Profile](https://go.tinder.com/Fo_Ho2Ktb2Q-Lillian)
- Phone: `+1 (660) 537-5999`
- [Bear](bear://x-callback-url/open-note?id=A8578E1E-09C3-46CF-B314-52496AEA14B6-723-000001112735699B)

## About Me

looking for a relationship (or friends?) i talk during movies there’s like a solid 54% chance i’m taller than you aries sun, cancer rising, leo moon i have parental issues if you couldn’t tell from the eyeliner and septum ring.

---

hilariously, the last person I matched and met on Tinder literally did that “would you just shut up and sleep with me” thing.

which is exactly where I’m at, too, and it feels more than fine… but like, … me? out of ….
like.

HIMBO

...

sorry, I did it again. I would love a shot at shutting up and making you feel good, but you should know that I really do work for and live with my 72 year old mother. our two dogs are something everyone should experience, though.

the great thing about getting to this position in life is that I have excellent expectation management skills, so if the mom thing or anything else puts you off, that’s okay! ! *so* okay.

if you’re still warm for my form, (fucking dad joke i’m so sorry,) and we make exciting plans but you’re not feelin it when you’re here, I would genuinely love to sit with you through a movie and just listen to you talk over it.

well… mostly listen. if that’s the one thing I can give to you, please take me up on it because I have no reverence for movies! I talk over them too! but i know that fucking absurd/pitiful story too well of the boy who genuinely believes he’s *giving* you something by sitting you down on a first date to watch that tarantino movie with the swords? silently. and then pout a little bit if you don’t suck him even a widdle bit.

I can’t offer much, but dang the reverse of that experience sounds great. lemme just orally dote on your pusssy with 100% of my attention while you ignore all the sequels too.

… sorry I’m gonna stop the spam now… but what if this is my calling lmao.

> no worries ! i’m not off put by anything like that we all have our own niche situations. for the summer i’m living with my parents until i move back into the dorm buildings.
> and my warning is that it’s insanely hard for me to make plans in the summer because of work/overbearing parents
> i had a tarantino guy <\\3 was so disappointing
> i can’t not talk during movies so if we watch one it’ll happen for sure

no for sure!!! I don’t want you commit to anything.

for the most part, i’m in the opposite situation - notice or commitment is not necessary, especially during the normal workday for most of the week, but you would have to come to me, I suppose.