---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/drafts/94-a58-db-2-5-f7-d-44-b0-98-dc-ce-87442-c14-de/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---


you are SO strong in text that my immediate rebuttal to that would be that *Tedium*, especially, needn’t worry about audio at all. as in, your consistency in volume (that’s oversimplified, but i’m sure you’ve heard this all before.)

I’m going to be STUPID presumptuous for a sec: I’ll bet most of the folks recommending “podcast”-adjacent departures on your part are the sort who actually regard the jest of Tedium/your *brand* to be actually esoteric, when honestly your beat, if you will, should be on the minds of most knowlege workers, cerainly. but I am saying so from a very specific personal lens so.

it does not seem to me that you of all people would have much to gain from the function “podcasts” (we **need** more goddamned terms to differentiate audio publishing ASAP lol) seem to play in the professional lives of other folks living in text: it’s a break, basically, from our endless Thought/Task/Note management SaaS Listicle Hell. 

personally, I am struggling more than I ever have to live and think primarily in text as someone who has *socialized* mostly in text forever (virtually *all* of my many close adult friendships have spanned great wordly distances - only recently have I realized how much more deeply I am invested in the Social Web than most … and why.)

you, sir, more than any other voice I have ever subscribed to, do not *appear* to struggle whatsoever with what people (hatefully) refer to as “writer’s block.” I think to the sort of people who feel compelled to recommend audio as a medium in that context - along with myself - your written voice appears so comfortable, regular, cohesive, and just… natural in text in a way we aspire to, certainly. covet, probably, but of course, it’s actually just experience, I’m sure, and deliberate discipline. 

I guess what I’m ultimately saying: if I could write like you right now, I wouldn’t bother speaking at all to anyone lol. 

sorry that’s a big one lol… I actually want to ask you what’s going to sound like *the* most basic bitch question: 

have you “”””enjoyed”””” writing MidRange? as in, the actual time passed spent pounding keys? 

because I remember actually noticing your timed time for the first time (lol) and fantasizing about being able to just sit down and pound out a few hundreds words (in gargantuan and alarmingly growing contrast to the actual rate in which *I* have peronally been able to satisfactorily manifest text) as if it’d be like… getting a severed limb back, basically. 