---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/drafts/b1-e83-a7-f-9-c31-4881-b608-fa-1-e12-d3-b17-d/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

- [I have too many drafts to handle! - General Discussion - Drafts Community](https://forums.getdrafts.com/t/i-have-too-many-drafts-to-handle/12428/2)
belgarion | 2022-04-09 03:16:09 UTC | #1

Drafts made it too easy to dump my thoughts into text.

I have too many drafts to handle. I tried to Merge them, file them into Obsidian, act on them but I have since given up. Sometimes, I tell myself that it might just be easier to tag them in Drafts and keep them into Workspaces i.e. using Drafts as my filing system instead. The Search is pretty good anyway. 

I know I should make it a habit to review my drafts at the end of the day to move them to it’s appropriate system. Often, I find myself too exhausted at the end of the day that I just want to close the computer and call it a day. Then, they start to pile up. 

What is the best practice?

-------------------------

FlohGro | 2022-04-09 07:17:40 UTC | #2

i have built an action group to get my thoughts into a single draft and process it later on:
https://forums.getdrafts.com/t/on-my-mind-action-group/12399?u=flohgro

You can also use this action to process your „INBOX“ workspace.
https://directory.getdrafts.com/a/1ch

Personally I send drafts to either todoist, Craft or DEVONthink- but at least some drafts I just store in Drafts and Tag them into different workspaces

-------------------------

sylumer | 2022-04-09 07:46:27 UTC | #3

[quote="belgarion, post:1, topic:12428"]
I know I should make it a habit to review my drafts at the end of the day to move them to it’s appropriate system. Often, I find myself too exhausted at the end of the day that I just want to close the computer and call it a day. Then, they start to pile up.
[/quote]

- Make it your standing first task of the following day.
- If timing permits, set aside time for a weekly review.

At some point you know you are going to have to do it. Tactics and tools can help speed that up, but if you have no energy to allow yourself to do it, you either need to give yourself more energy at that time, or change the time to where you have more energy.

-------------------------

belgarion | 2022-04-10 03:50:18 UTC | #4

Thanks for your suggestions. I will try out the action group recommended by @FlohGro .

One thing I notice is that my drafts tends to be around notes taken for the same customers, just that they come in on different days. This is where the Merge was really useful and I just decided recently that once I have merged them, I will trash the individual drafts, so that IF I end up using Drafts as a filing system, I don't get duplicates when searching. 

Edit: [I just learned that I can append into an existing drafts from quick capture!](https://forums.getdrafts.com/t/unable-to-append-or-prepend-using-quick-capture/10449/3)

The one thing I need to figure out is how I can have a timestamp printed at the top of the drafts when I create them using the quick capture shortcut (CTRL-SPACE, in my case, in a Mac) so that when I merge them, these drafts are separated by timestamp. I think there is an action on merging that does this. I have to search for it this weekend.

-------------------------

Blue | 2022-04-10 22:13:29 UTC | #5

This is not helpful but I couldn’t help myself… *How many drafts* are we actually talking about here? I’m a little over 2000 atm but I’ve been over 5000 before with zero issues.

-------------------------

belgarion | 2022-04-11 00:55:56 UTC | #6

[quote="Blue, post:5, topic:12428"]
I’m a little over 2000 atm but I’ve been over 5000 before with zero issues.
[/quote]

Mine pales in comparison to yours. I am in the hundreds... how do you even manage??

-------------------------

Blue | 2022-04-11 16:39:31 UTC | #7

To be honest, brilliantly! In so many different ways! It’s one of the reasons I love/depend on Drafts so much - it’s the only space in which I feel completely free to create as many or as few separate notes/“files” as I need without consequence. (And yet I have comfortably drafted notes over 15000 words before.) If you’re interested/if it’d be of help, I’m more than willing to go over some of the particulars of what I mean either here or privately if you’d like. My contact info can be found on my profile. :)

-------------------------

FlohGro | 2022-04-11 17:50:14 UTC | #8

Would be interested how you manage drafts :slight_smile: do you have a writeup of that?

-------------------------

===

Well shucks! For one thing, I’m flattered, @FlohGro, that someone of your familiarity/potency with Drafts would be curious about my setup hehe. I’ve been writing a lot about Drafts recently, but something as straight up as “How I Manage Drafts” sounds like something I should start right now! 

As of this moment, there’s quite a bit of raw evidence of my configuration available publicly on the web. [davidblue.wtf/drafts](https://davidblue.wtf/drafts) is the main index of an experiment I’ve been doing using [my NeoCities actions](https://bilge.world/using-drafts-with-neocities). If you’re *really* curious and want to spend the time, most of my total setup is on the directory, just unlisted - you can find my best attempt at indexing its links on [my Drafts-specific GitHub repo](https://github.com/extratone/drafts).

And then there’s [this WIP draft](https://davidblue.wtf/drafts/56EED87E-678E-4248-8E94-31650615C69A.html) of a thing I’ve been working on for a while but you must keep it a secret... (It’s actually more of an outline of my setup at the moment than an address of its original intended purpose lol.)