---
title: Regarding GV
tags: snowden, email
davodtime: 09082022-113653
local: shareddocuments:///private/var/mobile/Library/Mobile%20Documents/iCloud~md~obsidian/Documents/OBSHIDDIAN/drafts/B51C3248-E145-403B-866B-472499FA2D86.md
dg-publish: true
share: true
draft: drafts://open?uuid=B51C3248-E145-403B-866B-472499FA2D86
---

if I may - and please feel free to wait to respond unti/if you have time - but I kinda need your advice.

I have somehow managed to find myself in like.... a hilariously similar position with a gemini venus again. (yeah I'm an idiot.) but whatever happens, I am *not* going to let it turn into the thing where I punish her for who she is like I did with you just because I'm confused. anytime I broach this issue though she ends up saying exactly the right thing (ahem!!) to like reassure me but then.. idk. she's also fucking 23. also have a very strange amount in common. and a full-time elementary school teacher. and *fucking* adorable. *also* has some sort of weird penchant for the social room (I have at least been 100% honest up front about how I feel about it, this time.)

I know y'all just sweet and curious btw. I still think it's actually a more evolved existence than mine. but somehow still haven't figured out how to not end up in this position. 

I guess I should actually ask a question. how can I spare her the time it took for you to come to an epiphany, turn to me (at pitchfork) and say "you really don't care about anything, do you?" lol or should I just kill the whole thing now (delicately, considerately.)

again, I know that's a lot. and you've already given me so much in this regard. but I'm feeling very phooked at the moment.