---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/drafts/c575-f63-f-7028-4-e6-a-9-c78-f9-adf-273-c8-c9/","dgHomeLink":true,"dgPassFrontmatter":false}
---

- [Question regarding TADpooLe](https://forums.getdrafts.com/t/question-regarding-tadpoole/12991)
Ro136 | 2022-07-14 15:04:37 UTC | #1

Hi @sylumer,

I looked at your TADpooLe and ThoughtAsylum links, and it looks incredible. Just totally in awe.
Looks so useful, and so cool, and how you are sharing that with others, I can't really explain how amazed I am.
However... at the risk or sounding rude(and I really don't mean to be, so sorry if it comes across that way) it is so complex, that I don't think there is a way for a person like me to ever know if a data is being treated wrongly. I know you are trusted by agiletortoise, and you must be an incredible coder.
You seem so helpful, and I can't help but trust you personally.

But for example if I want to use these features at the office, I would have to be extra careful and accountable, especially now a days, about what they are doing(I know i'm not making sense because, how can I be accountable when I can't understand all the code, but hope you know what I mean). Especially since it seems like your core actions include creating a library database somewhere that I really don't know where(I honestly only "kind of" know how that works for Python on Mac, and no clue how that is done through iOS apps), and I wouldn't know what actions they are calling.
Especially now a days.

Also your "doctor drafts" workflow for Alfred seems so useful, and I so want to use it, but again, a little intimidated by how much code is in there(truly totally brilliant), but I don't think I will ever be able to be sure how it is handling on my device.
Even with the simple actions(maybe it isn't really simple) in creating a new note from Alfred. I tried using the x-callback-url, but that opens and focuses the drafts app. I think I read somewhere that yours can do that without opening/focusing the Drafts app.
(Which if can be done, I would absolutely LOVE to know how)

I must admit, I do install some actions even if I don't understand them at all, but I have relied on the "trusted member token", and also I can see the codes, and get a feel that it isn't sending my data off anywhere, or doing anything weird.


I might be sounding like a real nuisance at this point, and I apologize if I am. I am not trying to be annoying or anything. I'm just a person that is hoping to use your a-dream-some-true tools. They seems so great
I guess what I am trying to ask, while I think I know the answer, is if there is any way I might be able to be more at ease with diving into the amazing content that you are providing.

I totally understand if you ignore this post, and maybe the answer is just, if you aren't sure, don't use it on sensitive content. But any insight would be appreciated.

-------------------------

For one thing, I just want to say that this is 110% a legitimate, reasonable, and constructive question to ask here! I can't speak for Stephen, but - as a relatively longtime user of his library - I think I might have some worthwhile touchpoints depending on how long you've used Drafts, itself.

I know you sorta mentioned it, but one great comfort you can take regarding privacy in Drafts is that - basically without exception - actions with external integration have to [ask you for credentials](https://docs.getdrafts.com/docs/settings/credentials) before they can do anything via a very specific type of dialog, and you can always see a list of said credentials (the titles, anyway) in Settings (Gear Menu) ⇨ Credentials (It's the sole entry under the "Services" subgroup.) You'll find that you can revoke any of them at any time if you feel unclear about what's happening.

As far as auditing is concerned, Drafts' native [Action Log](https://docs.getdrafts.com/docs/actions/action-log) is very dependable *as long as you make sure the actions you're using aren't explicitly configured not to log*. If you've got the time, the TAD library actually includes some very impressive "[Advanced Logging](https://www.thoughtasylum.com/2020/07/25/drafts-advanced-logging/)" capabilities - though I must admit I'm basically just getting started with them, personally.

I know my commentary was not solicited but my logline for Drafts when speaking about it for the first time is specifically "I *trust* Drafts more deeply than any other software I've ever used." Perhaps the biggest contributor to that is how well documented it is. (Remarkably, [the TAD Library](https://tadpole.thoughtasylum.com) is, as well.) The second is how patient and open Greg and this very community have been with me. (I *promise* you I've asked far, *far* less appropriate questions here and gotten away with it lol.)

That said, welcome! I hope that was at least somewhat useful lol. 