---
title: e
tags: legacy, hardware
davodtime: 09082022-113719
local: shareddocuments:///private/var/mobile/Library/Mobile%20Documents/iCloud~md~obsidian/Documents/OBSHIDDIAN/drafts/F265B0CE-2B9F-4F0D-862E-6E2B793CCFFD.md
dg-publish: true
share: true
draft: drafts://open?uuid=F265B0CE-2B9F-4F0D-862E-6E2B793CCFFD
---
Built-in Flash memory provides extra capacity, ideal when working remotely, as well as providing additional workflow options for back-up and sharing content. 96GB embedded Flash memory can record and store up to 40 hours of high definition video footage in HD LP mode.

\* 96GB equals 96 billion bytes. A portion of the total storage is used for system management and/or application files.

### 3.5” touch-screen XtraFine™ LCD display (921K)

The large 3.5” (16:9) XtraFine LCD screen (921K) displays sharp, bright, vivid images, letting you compose a shot more easily and alter setting to best represent the scene, even when outdoors in bright lighting conditions.

### XLR adaptor with selectable phantom power and shotgun microphone

The detachable handle has a compact, ergonomic design. Two balanced XLR audio inputs are built in with phantom power and attenuation options that professional shooters require for clean sound quality. Default audio settings for XLR recording are highlighted in green for easy reference in the field in order to reduce operator error under difficult lighting conditions.

The ECM-XM1 shotgun microphone mounted on top of the handle provides audio recording performance similar to larger shoulder-mounted ENG style cameras.

### Geotagging with built-in GPS receiver

A built-in GPS receiver makes the HXR-NX70 an ideal choice for professional videographers. The receiver gives you the ability to “geo-tag” shooting locations - making it easy if you need to return to the same location or to create a log when surveying remote locations. Your locations can be tracked on Google maps and all GPS data can be extracted with a PC.

Additionally, the receiver automatically adjusts your camcorder’s clock to the proper time zone when international travel is part of your assignment.

### Direct Copy to external HDD without PC

Store content or backup important shots by copying footage directly from your camcorder to an external hard disk drive (sold separately) without using a computer. The HXR-NX70 can also access videos stored on an external hard drive for playback on HDTV, allowing you to utilise the camcorder’s handy playback features.

Additional information: Direct Copy is compatible with USB media that meets the following requirements: USB 2.0 or higher and formatted in FAT32 file system. It is recommended that external HDD is AC powered. The HXR-NX70 must be connected to AC power when using Direct Copy. VMC-UAM1 cable is supplied to connect HXR-NX70 with USB media, however connection via USB hub is not supported. There may be cases when USB media is not compatible with the Direct Copy function.

## Specifications

[General](https://pro.sony/en_CA/products/handheld-camcorders/hxr-nx70#)

\-

(w/Hood, w/Eye Cup, w/Battery, w/Microphone, w/XLR unit)

Dimension (W x H x D)

111.5 × 119.5 × 297.5 mm (4 1/2 × 4 3/4 × 11 3/4 inch) (w/Hood, w/Eye Cup)

\-

135 × 174 × 384.5 mm (5 3/8 × 6 7/8 × 15 1/4 inch) (w/Hood, w/Eye Cup, w/Battery, w/Microphone, w/XLR unit)

Power requirements

8.4 V/6.8 V (AC adaptor / Battery)

Power consumption

3.5 W (w/ viewfinder - normal brightness (HD FX)

\-

3.6 W (w/ LCD - normal brightness (HD FX)

Operating temperature

0 to +40 deg C (+32 to +104 deg F)

Storage temperature

\-20 to +60 deg C (-4 to +140 deg F)

Continuous Recording Time

220 min (VF), 215 min (LCD)

[Recording Section](https://pro.sony/en_CA/products/handheld-camcorders/hxr-nx70#)

Recording format

Video Format

\-

HD: MPEG4-AVC/H.264 AVCHD format compatible (1080/50p: original format)

\-

HD: Linear PCM/Dolby Digital 2ch, 16 bit, 48 kHz

\-

STD: Dolby Digital 2ch, 16 bit, 48 kHz

Recording frame rate (Due to variable bitrate, 24Mbps is the maximum bitrate for AVCHD FX mode and the average bitrate is being stated for FH, HQ and LP modes.)

HD PS (28 Mbps) 1920 x 1080/50p/16:9, HD FX (24 Mbps) 1920 x 1080/50i/16:9, HD FH (17 Mbps) 1920 x 1080/50i/16:9, HD HQ (9 Mbps) 1440 x 1080/50i/16:9, HD LP (5 Mbps) 1440 x 1080/50i/16:9, HD FX (24 Mbps) 1920 x 1080/25p/16:9, HD FH (17 Mbps) 1920 x 1080/25p/16:9, SD/STD HQ (9 Mbps) 720 x 576/50i /16:9, 4:3

Recording/Playback time

170 min (MS 32 GB, HD FX, LPCM)

\-

530 min (Int. memory 96 GB, HD FX, LPCM)

[Lens](https://pro.sony/en_CA/products/handheld-camcorders/hxr-nx70#)

Zoom ratio

Sony G Lens, 10x (optical), 14x Extended Zoom, 120x Digital Zoom

Focal length

f = 3.8 mm - 38 mm (equivalent to 26.3 mm - 263 mm (16:9),

\-

32.2 mm - 322 mm (4:3) on 35 mm lens) (The focal length is when SteadyShot mode is in Active mode Off.)

Focus

Full range auto/Manual

Image stabilizer

Optical SteadyShot™ image stabilization w/ Active mode (Wide to Tele)

[Camera Section](https://pro.sony/en_CA/products/handheld-camcorders/hxr-nx70#)

Imaging device

1/2.88 type Exmor® CMOS with ClearVid pixel array

Gross pixels

Approx.6,648,000

Video Actual pixels

Approx.6,140,000 (16:9)

Minimum illumination

3 lx (Low LUX mode, 1/25 shutter)

Shutter speed

1/6 - 1/10000 (Manual Shutter Speed Control)

Slow and Quick Motion

200 fps (fixed) as Smooth Slow Rec

\-

The picture quality is degraded. (fps: Field per Sec.)

White Balance

Auto, outdoor (5800K), indoor (3200K), One-push (Touch panel)

[Input/Outputs](https://pro.sony/en_CA/products/handheld-camcorders/hxr-nx70#)

Mic input

Stereo mini jack (x 1) ø3.5 mm

Audio input

XLR 3-pin (female) (x 2), LINE/MIC/MIC +48 V selectable

A/V Output

A/V Remote connector

Component Video Output

A/V Remote connector

Remote Conector

Stereo mini-minijack (ø2.5 mm)

USB

USB device, Mini-AB/Hi-Speed (x 1)

Headphone Output

Stereo mini jack (x 1) ø3.5 mm

HDMI output

HDMI mini connector (x 1)

[Monitoring](https://pro.sony/en_CA/products/handheld-camcorders/hxr-nx70#)

Viewfinder

1.1 cm (0.45 type, aspect ratio 16:9)

\-

1 226 880 dots equivalent (852 x 3 \[RGB\] x 480)

Built-in LCD Monitor

8.8 cm (3.5 type, aspect ratio 16:9)

\-

921 600 dots (1920 x 480)

[Recording Media](https://pro.sony/en_CA/products/handheld-camcorders/hxr-nx70#)

Removeable Media

Memory Stick PRO Duo (Mark2), Memory Stick PRO-HG Duo

\-

SD/SDHC/SDXC Memory Card (Class 4 or faster)

[Supplied Accessories](https://pro.sony/en_CA/products/handheld-camcorders/hxr-nx70#)

NP-FV70

Rechargeable Battery Pack

\-

Lens hood with lens cover

VMC-UAM1

USB Adaptor cable (for external HDD)

RM-845

Wireless Remote Commander

\-

Application Software (CD-ROM) (Content Management Utility)

## Resources and downloads

### Support
***

==**10038**== Words

- **[HXR-NX70](https://pro.sony/en_CA/products/handheld-camcorders/hxr-nx70)**